# todo-list

# What is this?
 
This program allows you to manage your daily tasks in an organized way. 

# Dependencies

* `maven`
* `java-jdk`

# Install maven

This assumes you already have the java jdk installed

## Windows

If you are using intellij than it has maven builtin. Otherwise you can download the scripts to install maven from their [website](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi). 

## Linux 

### Arch
 
You can install maven with the following:

`sudo pacman -S maven`

### Fedora

You can install maven with the following:

`sudo dnf install maven`

### Ubuntu/Debian

You can install maven with the following:

`sudo apt install maven`

### Void Linux 

You can install maven with the following:

`sudo xbps-install -S apache-maven`

### Gentoo

You can install maven with the following:

`emerge -a dev-java/maven-bin`

# Install dependencies with maven

In order to install all dependencies in the `pom.xml` use the following:

`mvn install`

In order to do this in intellij including all instructions below, you must go to the settings cogwheel
and click `run anything` and type the commands into the input box.

## Build the program with maven

In order to build the program into a single .jar file use the following:

`mvn clean compile assembly:single`

The .jar file will be located in the `target` directory 

### Run the .jar file

To run the .jar file, use the following:

`java -jar name-of-jar.jar`

Where name-of-jar is the name of the jar file generated by maven

To do this in intellij, right click on the jar and click `run jar file` or something or similiar nature.

# Generate javadoc documentation

`mvn javadoc:javadoc`

## View the javadoc in a browser

In order to render the html, you must start a local web server:

`python3 -m http.server`

*NOTE:* Make sure that you are in the projects folder `/target/site/apidocs` in order for this command to work.

If you are running intellij, it will pull up the file in a browser with the file:// protocol.

# Notes on File Locations

* On windows the todo lists are stored in `C:\%PROGRAMDATA%\todo-list\todos\` and the config is stored in `C:\%PROGRAMDATA%\todo-list\config\`

* On Linux the todo lists are stored in `~/.local/share/todolists/` and the config file is stored in `~/.config/todo-list/` 

If you try to start the daemon without a config file, the program will create one and tell you to update it with updated information.

# Notes on starting the daemon

* On Linux in order to make the daemon fully run in the background you must use this command

`setsid -f java -jar name-of-jar.jar -d`

This will detach the java process from its parent and fork it into the background. 

* On windows the daemon cannot be fully detached from its parent process.

# Command Line Arguments
    
| Argument                              | Function                                                                      |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| -d                                    | Start the background process to send notifications when an item is due        |
| -g                                    | Start the Graphical user interface for the program                            |
| -c list-name                          | Create a todo list with the corresponding name                                |
| -C                                    | Create a todo list with a random name                                         |
| -D list-name item-name                | Delete a todo item from the specified todo list                               |
| -a list-name item-name due-date       | Add a todo item to the corresponding todo list                                |
| -md list-name item-name               | Mark an item as done in a todo list                                           |
| -mo list-name item-name               | Mark an item as overdue in a todo list                                        |
| -mi list-name item-name               | Mark an item as incomplete in a todo list                                     |
| -h                                    | Print the help menu                                                           |

# License

This project is licensed under the [GPLv3](./LICENSE)
